Add v2 update docs (#1013)
rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade_to_version_2.adoc

= Upgrade to Version 2.x
:doctype: book

== Configuration File Update

In version 2.x:

 - `RSpec/InvalidPredicateMatcher` cop is removed
 - `CustomIncludeMethods` configuration option for `RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup` is removed

>  - cop departments are nested for cops with a department that doesn't match the extension name (`Capybara`, `FactoryBot`, `Rails`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - cop departments are nested for cops with a department that doesn’t match the extension name (`Capybara`, `FactoryBot`, `Rails`)
```

[discrete]
=== Adjust the configuration of `RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup`

[source,yaml]
----
# .rubocop.yml

# Before
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  CustomIncludeMethods:
  - include_tests

# After
AllCops:
  RSpec:
    Language:
      Includes:
        Example:
        - include_tests
----

=== Add a top-level `RSpec` department

RuboCop extensions had cops with clashing names and departments, e.g. both `rspec-rails` and `rubocop-rspec` had `Rails::HttpStatus` cops.
To avoid issues, e.g. inability to disable just one of the cops, each extension now has its own uber-department.

> Expectedly, RuboCop RSpec's uber-department name is `RSpec`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expectedly, RuboCop RSpec’s uber-department name is `RSpec`.
```

Author: I'm still not sure if "uber-department" is a correct term, but couldn't think of a better one :D

> Changes are only applied to cops that don't already have the department set to `RSpec`, i.e. `Capybara`, `FactoryBot` and `Rails`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes are only applied to cops that don’t already have the department set to `RSpec`, i.e. `Capybara`, `FactoryBot` and `Rails`.
```

[source,yaml]
----
# .rubocop.yml

# Before
Capybara/CurrentPathExpectation:
  Enabled: false

FactoryBot/AttributeDefinedStatically:
  Enabled: false

# remains the same
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  Enabled: false

# After
RSpec/Capybara/CurrentPathExpectation:
  Enabled: false

RSpec/FactoryBot/AttributeDefinedStatically:
  Enabled: false

# remains the same
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  Enabled: false
----

https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/pull/8490[Learn more about this change].

== Custom Cop Update Guide

> Due to significant API changes custom cops will break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to significant API changes, custom cops may break.
```

Author: With a 95% chance, I'd say :D

Here is the summary of the changes:

> 1) The base class for cops is now `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Base` instead of `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Cop`.

Reviewer: I think this line should start with `1.`
https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-writers-guide/#ordering-the-things

Author: Parrotted it from here https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/blame/master/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/v1_upgrade_notes.adoc#L10 that is quite good on the eye https://docs.rubocop.org/rubocop/v1_upgrade_notes.html

Reviewer: > quite good on the eye

Looks like I’ll have to open a pull request to fix RuboCop’s documentation too. 😄 

IMO this

<img width="403" alt="Screenshot 2020-10-22 at 22 27 09" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22333/96926409-cfa0f380-14b5-11eb-8df3-738c212a8e02.png">

looks more pleasing than this

<img width="403" alt="Screenshot 2020-10-22 at 22 22 31" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22333/96926424-d465a780-14b5-11eb-99f6-36a45b3f841e.png">

(note especially the indentation of the 2nd point)

Reviewer: Again, sorry for my nit-pick comments.

Author: Agree, AsciiDoc's list looks better.

> Looks like I’ll have to open a pull request to fix RuboCop’s documentation too. 

:laughing: :shrug:

Author: > sorry for my nit-pick comments

No worries, those comments are all to the point. :+1:

2) `TopLevelDescribe` is replaced with a more generic `TopLevelGroup`.

> 3) `RuboCop::RSpec::Language` has been completely rewritten to support dynamic RSpec DSL aliases and negated matchers to fully support third-party libraries e.g. RSpec Rails, Pundit, Action Policy and many others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) `RuboCop::RSpec::Language` has been completely rewritten to support dynamic RSpec DSL aliases and negated matchers to fully support third-party libraries such as RSpec Rails, Pundit, Action Policy and many others.
```

4) RuboCop RSpec updated the dependency of RuboCop to 1.0+.

Below are the necessary steps to update custom cops to work with `rubocop-rspec` version 2.x.

=== Change the Parent Class

Change the parent class of the custom cops from `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Cop` to `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Base`.

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
module RuboCop
  module Cop
    module RSpec
      class FightPowerty < Cop

# After
module RuboCop
  module Cop
    module RSpec
      class FightPowerty < Base
----

https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/962[Example pull request].

=== Replace `TopLevelDescribe`

`TopLevelDescribe` was incomplete, had poor performance and did not distinguish between example groups and shared example groups.

`TopLevelGroup` provides a similar interface, but instead of a single `on_top_level_describe` hook there are two, `on_top_level_example_group` and `on_top_level_group`.

> There's no need yet for `on_top_level_shared_group` for RuboCop core cops, but if your custom cop needs such a hook, please feel free to send a pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There’s no need yet for `on_top_level_shared_group` for RuboCop core cops, but if your custom cop needs such a hook, please feel free to send a pull request.
```

Additionally, `single_top_level_describe?` is removed with no direct replacement.
You may use `top_level_groups` query method instead, e.g. `top_level_groups.one?`.

Example pull requests to replace `TopLevelDescribe` with `TopLevelGroup` [https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/978[1], https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/932[2], https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/977[3]].

=== Change the `Language` Module Usages

> The `RuboCop::RSpec::Language` is completely different now.

Reviewer: I still have to get used to this fact 😅

Author: Me too, but we have plenty of reference examples luckily :D

`Hooks::ALL` and alike, and their accompanying helpers work differently.
To allow for lazy initialization, and for loading of the language configuration after the class are loaded, a https://docs.rubocop.org/rubocop-ast/node_pattern.html#to-call-functions[function call feature of RuboCop AST] is used.

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_matcher :shared_context,
                 SharedGroups::CONTEXT.block_pattern

# After
def_node_matcher :shared_context,
                 block_pattern('#rspec(:SharedGroups, :Context)')
----

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_search :examples?,
                (Includes::EXAMPLES + Examples::ALL).send_pattern

# After
def_node_search :examples?,

>                 send_pattern(
>                   '{#rspec(:Includes, :Example) #rspec(:Examples)}')

Reviewer: I think it would be better if we can keep this on one line.
```suggestion
                send_pattern('{#rspec(:Includes, :Example) #rspec(:Examples)}')
```
BTW it is _exactly_ 80 characters wide 😅

----

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_search :find_rspec_blocks,
                ExampleGroups::ALL.block_pattern

# After
def_node_search :find_rspec_blocks,
                block_pattern('#rspec(:ExampleGroups)')
----

https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/956[Pull request with more examples].

=== Conform with RuboCop API Changes

> The parent project, RuboCop, have API changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parent project, RuboCop, has API changes.
```

> They won't result in cop breakages, however, it's recommended to update cops to use new APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While they won’t result in cop breakages, it is recommended to update cops to use new API’s.
```

> Follow the https://docs.rubocop.org/rubocop/v1_upgrade_notes[RuboCop's core v1 update guide] to adjust custom cops' RuboCop Autocorrect API usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the https://docs.rubocop.org/rubocop/v1_upgrade_notes[RuboCop v1 update guide] to adjust custom cops’ use of RuboCop’s auto-correction API.
```

= Upgrade to Version 2.x
:doctype: book

== Configuration File Update

In version 2.x:

 - `RSpec/InvalidPredicateMatcher` cop is removed
 - `CustomIncludeMethods` configuration option for `RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup` is removed
 - cop departments are nested for cops with a department that doesn’t match the extension name (`Capybara`, `FactoryBot`, `Rails`)
 - `AllCops/RSpec/Patterns`/`AllCops/FactoryBot/Patterns` options are removed

>  - Calling `super` from `on_new_investigation` defined in a cop is mandatory now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Calling `super` from `#on_new_investigation` defined in a cop is mandatory now
```

>  - Avoid explicit definition of `cop` as `described_class.new`

Reviewer: I don’t understand this sentence. Could you explain a bit more, please?

[discrete]
=== Adjust the configuration of `RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup`

[source,yaml]
----
# .rubocop.yml

# Before

> RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
>   CustomIncludeMethods:
>   - include_tests
> 
> # After
> RSpec:
>   Language:
>     Includes:
>       Examples:
>       - include_tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  CustomIncludeMethods:
    - include_tests

# After
RSpec:
  Language:
    Includes:
      Examples:
        - include_tests
```

----

=== Add a top-level `RSpec` department

RuboCop extensions had cops with clashing names and departments, e.g. both `rspec-rails` and `rubocop-rspec` had `Rails::HttpStatus` cops.
To avoid issues, e.g. inability to disable just one of the cops, each extension now has its own uber-department.
Expectedly, RuboCop RSpec’s uber-department name is `RSpec`.
Changes are only applied to cops that don’t already have the department set to `RSpec`, i.e. `Capybara`, `FactoryBot` and `Rails`.

[source,yaml]
----
# .rubocop.yml

# Before
Capybara/CurrentPathExpectation:
  Enabled: false

FactoryBot/AttributeDefinedStatically:
  Enabled: false

# remains the same
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  Enabled: false

# After
RSpec/Capybara/CurrentPathExpectation:
  Enabled: false

RSpec/FactoryBot/AttributeDefinedStatically:
  Enabled: false

# remains the same
RSpec/EmptyExampleGroup:
  Enabled: false
----

https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/pull/8490[Learn more about this change].

=== Use the RuboCop standard `Include` option to filter inspected files

> `Patterns` was a RuboCop-RSpec-specific option, and RuboCop has a standard replacement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Patterns` was a RuboCop RSpec-specific option, and RuboCop has a standard replacement.
```

[source,yaml]
----
# .rubocop.yml

# Before

> AllCops:
>   RSpec/FactoryBot:
>     Patterns:
>     - spec/factories/**/*.rb
>     - property/factories/**/*.rb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AllCops:
  RSpec/FactoryBot:
    Patterns:
      - spec/factories/**/*.rb
      - property/factories/**/*.rb
```

# After
RSpec/FactoryBot:
  Include:
    - spec/factories/**/*.rb
    - property/factories/**/*.rb
----

> NOTE: Please keep in mind that `Include`'s merge mode is set to override the default settings, so if you intend to add a path, while keeping the default paths, you should include the default include paths in your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Please keep in mind that `Include`'s merge mode is set to override the default settings, so if you intend to add a path while keeping the default paths, you should include the default `Include` paths in your configuration.
```

Author: "Include the include" 🤦

https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop-rspec/pull/1063[Learn more about this change].

== Custom Cop Update Guide

Due to significant API changes, custom cops may break.
Here is the summary of the changes:

1. The base class for cops is now `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Base` instead of `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::Cop`.

> 2. `TopLevelDescribe` is replaced with a more generic `TopLevelGroup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The module `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::TopLevelDescribe` is replaced with a more generic `RuboCop::Cop::RSpec::TopLevelGroup`.
```

The `RuboCop::RSpec::Language` is completely different now.

`Hooks::ALL` and alike, and their accompanying helpers work differently.

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_matcher :shared_context,
                 SharedGroups::CONTEXT.block_pattern

# After
def_node_matcher :shared_context,
                 block_pattern('#SharedGroups.context')
----

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_search :examples?,
                (Includes::EXAMPLES + Examples::ALL).send_pattern

# After
def_node_search :examples?,
                send_pattern('{#Includes.Example #Examples.all}')
----

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
def_node_search :find_rspec_blocks,
                ExampleGroups::ALL.block_pattern

# After
def_node_search :find_rspec_blocks,
                block_pattern('#ExampleGroups.all')
----

If you were calling Language elements directly, you have to make the same adjustments:

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
node&.sym_type? && Hooks::Scopes::ALL.include?(node.value)

# After
node&.sym_type? && Language::HookScopes.all(node.value)
----

You may see a common pattern in the change.
There is a small exception, though:

[source,ruby]
----
# Before
ExampleGroups::GROUPS

# After

> ExampleGroups#regular

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ExampleGroups.regular
```

# Before
Examples::EXAMPLES

# After

> Examples#regular

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Examples.regular
```
